---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## Open Source

Open source, to me, is a project that is publicly available and accessible – anyone can propose a change, get it reviewed and approved. There's a community around an open source project that develops through time as they shape the direction of the project.

Open source has some advantage over closed source in a few aspects – first, the project itself benefits from having much more eyes looking through the source code to spot and report any bugs, and much more manpower to fix those bugs or implement new features.

It’s also beneficial for people from not so wealthy communities who can use open source software for free, and also a way for people to learn about how the projects work under the hood. As for non-software projects, it can be a huge cost-saver for these communities if these replace pricey reference materials like textbooks.

Some potential problems with open source is that, like most of the Internet, there might be trolls trying to undermine the efforts of the project maintainers and contributors.

Also, since most people are volunteering their time, there might be periods where they are too busy to update their pull requests based on changes requested. This might be block the progress of other people who depend on that particular change, and slow down the progress of the whole project. 

---

## Projects

Here are a few open source projects that I use / reference regularly / found helpful –

### [1. Git](https://github.com/git/git)
Git is a fast, scalable, distributed revision control system with a rich command set that provides both high-level operations and full access to internals.

I use `git` as the main source control system for all my projects (like most people). I've skimmed through the source code a few times and it is quite interesting to see how version control works under the hood, even though I still don't completely understand it.

**Alternatives: [Subversion](https://subversion.apache.org/source-code.html)**


### [2. Lodash](https://github.com/lodash/lodash)

Lodash is a modern JavaScript utility library that makes working with JavaScript easier by taking the hassle out of working with arrays, numbers, objects, strings, etc.

Lodash has helped me a lot when I was learning Javascript – reading through the source code on how higher-order functions are implemented, and not merely just importing the library and using it, was very helpful in guiding me to write my own functions. It was also useful to see how Javascript modules are structured, giving me a framework to work with when implementing my own modules.

**Alternatives: [Underscore.js](https://github.com/jashkenas/underscore)**


### [3. The Super Tiny Compiler](https://the-super-tiny-compiler.glitch.me/)

This is an ultra-simplified example of all the major pieces of a modern compiler written in easy to read JavaScript.

I never really thought I could understand what compilers do but this made things like Abstract Syntax Trees more approachable.


### [4. Systems Design Primer](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer)
This is a resource to learn how to design large-scale systems.

I found this when I was looking for materials to learn about systems design. I really appreciate the simple language and visual aides included – it has made learning much easier and has definitely deepened my interest in systems design.

**Alternatives: [Systems Design Interview](https://github.com/checkcheckzz/system-design-interview), [Systems Design Cheatsheet](https://gist.github.com/vasanthk/485d1c25737e8e72759f)**

---

## Questions for Tom

* How do you / the community deal with situations where a bug is approved and pushed to production / widely distributed? or, what does an open source post-mortem look like?

* How does RedHat differ from other open source organizations?