---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

## Open Data Week Events

I went for one ODW event on Tuesday – **Reaktor Presents: Data Discussion Happy Hour**. The panel consists of individuals from different fields, from corporations (Viacom) to goverment bodies, to entreupreneurs. They talked about how open data impacts polictics in terms of helping people have a more face-based conversation rather than an anecdotal-centered one, but also brought up the point that there may be inherent biases in some open data, for example crime statistic unfairly discriminate against Black neighborhoods, perpetuating an endless cycle of discrimination and prosecution. 

I learnt that one difficulty the open data community face is to clean and merge relavant data sets, which led to the idea of open sourcing data sets like how we open source code, and asking volunteers to help to clean data via platforms like GitHub. They also mentioned how important it is to educate people about the existence of open data, and how to access and use them so that open data can live up to it's potential.

The other one I wanted to go to got postponed due to the snow so I will write a blog post on it when I attend it in April.

## Weekly Contributions

* Made [this pull request](https://github.com/facebook/Docusaurus/pull/491) to Docusaurus to update their CircleCI documentation. Even though this PR was a non-code change, I had to make sure that the sample config file included in the docs were correct, so I had to create a test repository with that config file and integrate it with CircleCI to make sure it ran. After 17 failues, I finally got the right configurations. Joel (the co-creator) was super fast in responding to issues and pull request. He gave me some good suggestions and I revised my PR based on that.

* Made [this pull request](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5js.github.io/pull/9) to enable search on the ML5.js documentation site. Getting the API key took a bit of reading the Algolia docs, and the Docusaurus docs, to find out how I can get the key and index name without having to pay for it. Turns out you just need to fill [this form](https://community.algolia.com/docsearch/) and an Algolia engineer would reach out to you.

* Made [this pull request](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5js.github.io/pull/12) to update broken links on the ML5.js documentation site.

TIL: non-code changes occasionally involve writing some code even if it doesn't end up in the final PR.

