---
layout: post
title: Week 13 / 14
---
## Course Reflections

This course was pretty productive for me – I finally made some open source contributions after wanting to do so for quite a long time but didn't.

I enjoyed the guest lectures – it gave me something to compare against my experience working on closed source software. Maybe next time we could have someone who does open source full-time, but isn't affiliated with a company, e.g. people like [Evan You](https://www.patreon.com/evanyou) who works on Vue.js, and [Henry Zhu](https://www.patreon.com/henryzhu) who works on Babel. It would give some perspective since open source freelancers don't necessarily have benefits like health insurance etc. that employed engineers do.

I also enjoyed documenting my progress in the form of blog posts. It's nice to have a space to chart my learning experience every week.

I also enjoyed working on an open source project together with my team on Jupyter Notebook, because we were lucky to find such a welcoming community and an active and approachable project, which some groups unfortunately did not. Perhaps during the first few weeks, instead of choosing 1 project to work on, we could have 1 main project and 3 alternative projects that we can fall back on in case the main project turns out to be not beginner friendly.

It's nice to learn about other groups' experience with open source during their presentations because it's quite different from ours. 

I wish we learnt more about advance git commands (i.e. rebasing, which is quite important in approaching open source), and how git works under the hood (even though it's not part of the course, just because it's interesting and not a lot of people go in depth about it).

I would do away with mid-terms or exams in general completely. I felt that it didn't really test my knowledge in open source. Also, this course mainly focuses on how to contribute to open source, so I'd add a portion on how to maintain an open source project, and the challenges that come with that responsibility (i.e. burnout, passing over responsibiilties when you no longer want to maintain a project etc.)