---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

## The Cathedral and The Bazaar 💒 

The Cathedral model of software development is where a close-knit group of individuals work in isolation on a project, with "no beta released before its time". The main objective to ensure the project is as bug-free as possible at each release, and in between these releases, developers would work very hard to fix any bugs they can find. This model is the basis of most of the commercial world.

On the other hand, the Bazaar model is more of a "self-correcting system" where the project is released early and often, so that many people who were not initially part of the core developers of the projects can chip in by reporting bugs and proposing fixes. Hence it being likened to a 'bazaar', having many possibly divergent and incohrent voices inundating a single project. There is a certain speed that comes with having so many people involved in a project, and this model is how open source sofware development works.s

I'd be more comfortable in the Cathedral model because it provides a more stable structure to work within. I like knowing the direction of a project in the long run, and having people I can rely on when I stumble upon problems when developing features or fixing bugs. I enjoy having a safe space to fail within, and dependable teammates to work with – which might not always be the case in the Bazaar model. (Not to say that it is guaranteed when people work within the Cathedral model, but the probability is hopefully higher.)

## Two Interesting Lessons

Here are two lessons I liked the most – 

> When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it to a competent successor

I found this to be very true because an owner might create some wonderful project that is used by many people, but somehow as the years go by, they lose interest in the project, or are just too caught up with the weight of life that they might think of discontinuing the project. However, given that there is already a considerable user base, the owner should (for the sake of their users) find someone to hand the project off to – someone who has perhaps contributed to the project in the past and has interest to maintain it.

> Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.

I really love this saying because it's the bedrock of minimalism. Code-wise – it means that the software is well architected: there are no redundant parts, and pieces are properly abstracted to be reused. Product-wise, it's when users find the product simple to use and it does the job well without any fancy extraneous features that only serves to detract from the product's core functionality. I found this similar [quote](https://twitter.com/chrismaddern/status/959909297936388097): "No product has ever won on the basis of how much it does. Products win because of 1 or 2 things they do well that people actually care about." – and I believe it still rings true today.