---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

## Reflections on Janna's talk
I really enjoyed Janna's talk – it gave me a sense of how vast the open source teams at Google are. I feel that Google's approach to open source is ultimately financially motivated, given that they are a corporation after all. Still, I feel that those projects has definitely enriched the whole software ecosystem, especially popular ones like Go, Kubernetes and Tensorflow.

She also shed light on how important communication skills are, especially when you are working with contributors or members of the community who are not physcally right beside you and may be in another timezone – being kind, curteous and clear becomes really important when working on open source.

## Open Data Week

I went to Talk Data with Me at General Assembly this week. The talks didn't really cover anything about open data, since the datasets the speakers used were not publicly available, rather they were mostly collected from consumers / users of certain products. However, the topics they covered were quite interesting.

A speaker talked about data science being an art rather than a science, given that a meaningful and impactful usage of data requires the freedom to think and some elements of creativity, to eventually product fresh insights. Another speaker talked about team's vision to make Artificial Intelligent less artificial and more intelligent through emotions, and the ethical questions that arise from this process. He talked about the importance of getting the user's permission to use their emotional state as data points to tailor feedback mechanisms in light of affective computing becoming more popular.


## [Progress](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s18/jupyter-milestones/projects/1) on Jupyter Notebook

This week, we made good progress on Jupyter as a team. Me and Celina worked on this [issue](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/issues/3471) to improve web accessibility, and made this [PR](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/3507). I worked on cleaning up the user interface, and adding a `lang` attribute that's generated dynamically (since Notebook can be translated) to describe the language of the page.

I also worked on this [issue](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/issues/3292) to check for broken links only if the build is triggered by a cron job, and made this [PR](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/3493) which has been merged. It was my first time writing shell script so that was fun :-D

Celina and Rose worked on this [PR](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/3511) and Dana worked on this [PR](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/3494) which has been merged.

I also added some instructions to our milestone's [`README.md`](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s18/jupyter-milestones) to help us work on PRs collaboratively.

## Go's [Code of Conduct](https://golang.org/conduct)
I feel that having a Code of Conduct is very helpful for projects, especially if the project is really popular and has a large community of people working on it. It makes people within the community, especially those of underrepresented backgrounds, feel safe to voice their thoughts without being discrimated against, since the CoC explicitly states what behaviors are unwelcomed – e.g. "discrimination based on age, disability, gender, nationality, race, religion, sexuality, or similar personal characteristic". This makes it very clear to everyone what is not tolerated, in turn making underrepresented minorites feel welcomed, fostering a more inclusive community.

Our team project, unfortunately, doesn't have a CoC document.

## Weekly Contributions
Apart from our Jupyter contributions, none this week.